Facilities
==========

.. index::
   pair: facilities; computing labs
   pair: facilities; labs
   pair: facilities; Lake Shore Campus
   pair: facilities; LSC
   pair: facilities; Water Tower Campus
   pair: facilities; WTC


General Computing Labs
----------------------

The department has general computer laboratories at the Lake Shore and
Water Tower Campuses. They are three windows labs and one free/open
source laboratory (at Water Tower Campus only) running Ubuntu Linux. The
Windows labs are managed by Information Technology Services (ITS) with
software requests submitted regularly by the department.

.. index::
   pair: research; Internet-2

Internet-2
----------

The CS Department was part of a successful team that received funding to
bring Internet-2 to Loyola University Chicago as a whole. This
next-generation Internet allows students within the department to
explore ideas such as cluster computing, grid computing, Internet
telephony, and distributed scientific application development. In
addition to Internet-2, the university maintains a high-speed optical
network/ring that connects all of the Loyola campuses (LSC, WTC, and
Loyola University Medical Center).

.. index::
   pair: research; Windows HPC Cluster

Windows HPC Cluster
-------------------

Drs. Putonti and Thiruvathukal operate two Windows HPC clusters: an
80-node dual-core Opteron cluster by Rackable Systems and a 24-node
dual-core Xeon cluster by Dell. Both clusters feature high-speed
Ethernet and/or Infiniband. These clusters are housed in the ITS data
center.

.. index::
   pair: research; GPGPU 
   pair: Emerging Technologies Laboratory; GPGPU

GPGPU Server
------------

Our new GPGPU Server was set up at our ETL. It is SuperServer 7046GT-TRF-TC4
with 2 x Intel Xeon Quad-Core (16 logical processors), 96GB RAM, 4 x NVIDIA®
Tesla C2075 GPUs. Please read our :doc:`gpgpu-server` guide on how to get
started.

.. index::
   single: Emerging Technologies Laboratory

Emerging Technologies Laboratory
--------------------------------

.. _ETL: http://www.etl.luc.edu

The `ETL`_ is a growing presence for experimental computer science and
engineering projects. This laboratory supports many experimental computing
needs and is a place where students can explore ideas not covered directly in
any particular class.  Virtualization, embedded systems, green computing, and
mobile development take place here.

.. index::
   single: wireless

Wireless
--------

The entire department (faculty offices, computer labs, emerging
technologies lab, and halls) are covered by 802.11g Wireless LAN.

Research Data Center
--------------------

Loyola University Chicago’s Research Data Center (RDC) is a 1,000-square-foot
facility dedicated to support research and funded grants projects, provides a
secure home for the computational clusters and related equipment used by our
research community.

The RDC (opened in 2010) delivers a high availability computing environment for
research projects. This facility is equipped with power protection, including
an uninterruptible power supply and a back-up generator. Multiple computer room
air conditioner (CRAC) units provide redundant cooling for the space, and a
structured cabling design allows for high-speed network connectivity. In
addition to fire protection, additional safety and security elements for the
RDC include keycard access, camera surveillance, and environmental monitoring.

Sized to accommodate moderate growth, several research initiatives are
currently taking advan- tage of the space, which at present houses three
research clusters and over 100 nodes. Additionally, collaborative research
efforts with other participating institutions and/or organizations have full
access and connectivity to Internet2 via the Metropolitan Research & Education
Network (MREN) to accommodate high bandwidth applications, data transmissions,
and computational require- ments.

A steering committee, made up of senior administrators, faculty, and ITS
professionals, is re- sponsible for reviewing, evaluating, and recommending
strategies, plans, and policies governing the use of the RDC resources.
Loyola’s RDC is managed by Information Technology Services (ITS) in partnership
with the university’s Facilities Department.

Drs. Thiruvathukal, Läufer, and Putonti have a general-purpose 80-node
computing cluster that runs a mix of Windows HPC Server and the ROCKS
clustering software.
